md_rnaions.c

The program md_rnaions.c takes one argument, a gromacs.mdp type file. A few example mdp files are provided in the directory "extras/examples/". This file sets a few key parameters and file names. This file is read by the function alloc_parms, so if there is anything else you need to modify, look there first.

The program is parallelized using openMP, and is trivially parallelized to run batches of similar simulations together using MPI. To specify parameters that should differ between parallel runs, replace the parameter name, e.g. ref_t, with the parameter name appended by "-list", e.g ref_t-list.

The parameters in the mdp file are as follows:

offset - If a large number of simulation parameters are specified in the "-list" parameters, and you don't want all of them to run in the same MPI job, one may include all the parameters in the mdp file, and only change "offset" for different job submissions. Offset is added to the MPI process ID when choosing which element of the parameter array to use.

maxh - The program will stop and exit cleanly after running for 0.99*maxh hours.

N_mg - Controls the number of Mg ions added to the system. Together with "box" this controls the Mg concentration. 250 provides a reasonable bulk population for small RNA systems under 100 residues.

conc_KCl - The monovalent ion concentration, in Molar

ref_t0 - When running in conjunction with a structure based model, this is the reduced temperature which corresponds to a temperature of 300 K. Default is 90.

ref_t - The reduced temperature to run the simulations at

box - The box size in nm. Together with N_mg, this sets the Mg concentration

dt - the timestep in ps. The integrator is not guaranteed to be stable beyond 0.002

nsteps - The number of steps to run the simulation. On my cluster, I can get a little over 200M steps in a day on the BWYV pseudoknot.

nstxout - How frequently to print the output files. Output files are automatically named, indexed by their MPI process ID, and placed in the "outfiles" directory.

flexible - use "yes" or "no". This determines whether or not RNA atoms are allowed to fluctuate.

outdir - The name of the directory to write output files to. The program will create the directory if it does not exist. Make sure the directory contains no checkpoint files (.cpt) if you are starting a new run, otherwise, md_rnaions may read checkpoint files from previous runs and continue those runs.

xyzqfile - The structure file (.xyzq) contains four columns, containing the x, y, and z coordinates (in nm) of an atom and its charge (in e). There is a row for each atom. Mg are not included in this file, they are randomly generated by the program. There are several examples in the "system" directory.

topfile - The topology file is in gromacs .top format. There are a few examples in the "system" directory.

outputguard - If the program estimates it is going to output more bytes than the value of output guard (per MPI thread) it will abort immediately. The default value is 5e10 (50 Gb).

trajfmt - format for the output trajectory. Either gro or xtc.



Compile_Avi.sh

Inside src/ is a compile file, Compile_Avi.sh. It compiles the package using the MakeFile in that directory. Compile.sh is set up to automatically choose correct modules, libraries and so on for several computers at Rice. You will need to edit it to supply the proper information for your particular platform. Compile_Avi.sh with generate an executable md_rnaions.cex inside src/

Submit_STEM_Avi.sh

There are several examples of scripts to run the execuable md_rnaions.cex in extras/submitscripts/. In most cases a script starting with "submit" submits a script starting with "script" to the queue, and "script" calls md_rnaions.cex.

Other notes

All your output will appear in the directory outfiles (or whatever other directory you specified with outdir). Each output file will contain a #.# before the file extention. The first number # is the run number (corresponding to each of the "-list" options in the .mdp file), and the second number # is the phase number.

state.0.0.cpt - If an nth round of simulations is started, it will pick up where the previous round left off by reading the contents of the state.#.(n-1).cpt checkpoint file. To prevent run continuation, you must delete all checkpoint files out of outfiles

traj.0.0.gro - The particle coordinate trajectory in .gro format. Atom and residue names are incorrect

Gt.0.0.dat Kt.0.0.dat - The potential and kinetic energies

theta.0.0.dat theta_cl.0.0.dat - The condensation variables "mu" from the PRL publication are given in this file. The first file gives K condensation and the second file gives Cl condensation. The row corresponds to the time step, the column specifies the phosphate

eta.0.0.dat eta_cl.0.0.dat - The condensation variables "eta" from the PRL publication, in the same format as theta.0.0.dat and theta_cl.0.0.dat

A few other output files of less importance are also generated.


Outstanding issues

The package is a little rough right now. If you have any confusion or helpful suggestion, you can email avijitmainan97@gmail.com or susmita.roy@iiserkol.ac.in



